# A Novel(?) 3D Printer Enclosure

## See also:

* [Installation notes ](install.md) very basic, needs more info
* [Gallery of pictures](gallery.md) basically an index into the pictures directory
* [Vendors used](vendors.md) useless list of vendors and links, unless you live in South Korea
* [Build log](build-log.md)
* Datasheets directory (needs a few more datasheets)

## Design files:

* `cage.scad` OpenSCAD file
* `cage-bom.xlsx` BOM listing
  - `cage-bom-*.txt` intermediate bom text files generated by OpenSCAD
* `cage-panel.dwg` (also DXF and PDF files) drawing for basic panel

## Intro

I've been curious for some time about 3D printers, but never took the
plunge until the virus hit.  Back in March, a friend of mine pointed 
out that he was making minuature people, cars, and buildings for his 
HO-gauge model railroad layout using a $300 printer from China.  
I knew the time had come.  His model was the Ender 3, but I splurged and
got the Ender 5 Pro.  

Shortly after receiving my new printer, another friend told me I needed
an enclosure, advice that I kept putting off until I realized he was
right.  After doing a little research, I wasn't really impressed with
any of the off-the-shelf solutions.  Having an enclosure that was not
flammable seemed to be desirable, but many of the popular ones weren't.  

I found a discussion on Reddit discussing fire-resistant boards which
sounded promising, but I wasn't readily able to find any cheaply here in
South Korea.  I saw some people were using plexiglass, and suddenly got
the idea to use tempered glass.  At first, I imagined complex 3D pieces
that would join panes of glass together at the corners to form an enclosure.  
This scheme would also have to accomodate doors, panels, mounting points for 
accessories, and it was beginning to become a headache.

Then suddenly, I had the idea of using the same type of aluminum extrusions 
that comprised the 3D printer as frames for a glass enclosure, and it
seemed much more approachable. 


Now here's where I got lucky.  South Koreans are not really into the
DIY scene, and finding supplies that would be trivial to get in the US
can be challenging, if not impossible.  In addition, I don't have a
workshop here, so extensive cutting, drilling, etc., is a non-starter.
To my surprise, I was quickly able to find what I needed online.  There
are shops selling aluminum 2020 extrusions, which can be cut to custom 
lengths.  I also found a place that would make sheets of tempered glass,
cut to custom sizes, chamfers, and radii on request (this service 
primarily targeted homeowners who wanted glass protection on top of
their tables, a common thing here).

My next concern was joinery.  I found several metal joints for 2D and 3D
corners.  But eventually I went with a 3D-printed corner from `Mighty
Nozzle`.  The advantage of these joints is they leave the interior
groove vacant to hold the glass panels.

The basic idea is a frame is made of 2020 extrusion, and the inside
groove is used to hold a glass panel.  The depth of the groove is 6mm,
and I specified the glass panels to engage 5mm into the groove for a
snug fit.

Hinges were another concern, but I also quickly found hinges which were
suitable sized and spaced to make the doors. All hinges except the top
panel result in a 5mm gap.  The top panel hinges give a 10mm gap, to
accomodate the 3D corner joints.  I probably could have shaved them down
to be thinner than the default 7mm, but I decided to play it safe.

I think the gaps around the door panels are a little large, but I wasn't
sure to what accuracy these places could cut my pieces.  I decided to
stick to multiples of 5mm for all dimensions.

The basic design includes a divided front door to access the printing
stage.  A side door allowing access to the filament reel and feeder.
And a top panel which opens like a top-loader washing machine.

Another thing I like about using extrusions for the enclosure is it
allows me to tack on accessories as needed, for example, a Raspi4 
running Octoprint, LED light strips, etc.  

The design was visualized in OpenSCAD.  I put some `echo` statements
within key modules of the design, showing the part and its key
dimensions.  This allows me to make a poor-man's BOM by some simple
post-processing of the output text.



